parameter:
north-america.smf output.smf

work directory:
$(ProjectDir)/../../../../../data


MESH: Measuring Error between Surfaces using the Hausdorff distance
MESH version 1.13

Copyright (C) 2001-2004 EPFL
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Report bugs to <Nicolas.Aspert@epfl.ch> and <Diego.SantaCruz@epfl.ch>

Usage: mesh [[options] file1 file2]

The program measures the distance from the 3D model in
file1 to the one in file2. The models must be given as
triangular meshes in RAW, VRML2, Inventor 2.x, PLY ASCII,
PLY binary, and SMF formats. Normals are supported in RAW
and VRML2 formats. It also reads gzipped files directly.
The VRML parser reads IndexedFaceSets nodes only,
ignoring all transformations, and does not support USE tags
(DEF tags are ignored). Likewise the Inventor 2.x reader is
somewhat limited. The file type is autodetected.
After the distance is calculated the result is displayed
as overall measures in text form and as a detailed distance
map in graphical form.
If no options nor filenames are given a dialog is shown
to select the input file names as well as the parameters.

Display:
After calculating the distance, the error distribution on
model 1 is displayed in graphical form. There are three
modes to display the error distribution: vertex error, face
mean error and sample error.
In vertex error, each vertex is assigned a color based on
the calculated error at that vertex (if not calculated at
that vertex, dark gray is used) and the color is
interpolated between vertices. Invisible vertices are added
as necessary to display error at sample points which are not
vertices of model 1. The ratio between the total number of
error samples and error samples displayed is controlled by
the "vertex error downsampling" parameter. For low
downsampling values it can be very accurate, but it can use
a large number of triangles. For high downsampling values
the result can be misleading, although very fast.
In mean face error, each triangle is assigned a color based
on the mean error for that face (if that face has no samples
a dark gray is used).
In sample error mode  a color is assigned to each sample
point based on the error at that point, and  applied to the
model using texture mapping (if a face has no sample points
a dark gray is assigned to it). This mode is as accurate as
the vertex error mode with a downsampling value of 1,
although it can be very slow if model 1 has a large number
of triangles. If model 1 has few triangles and there is a
large number of samples this mode can be considerably faster
than vertex error mode with a low downsampling value.
A colorbar showing the correspondance between error values
and color is displayed. The colorbar also shows the
approximate distribution, on the surface of model 1, of the
error values using a histogram (approximate because the
distribution of the sample points on the surface is not
truly uniform).
Note that the -mf flag can force a minimum number of samples
per face.

options:
  -h    Displays this help message and exits.

  -v    Displays version number, legal info and exits.

  -s    Calculate a symmetric distance measure. It calculates
        the distance in the two directions and uses the max
        as the symmetric distance (Hausdorff distance).

  -q    Quiet, do not print progress meter.

  -va   Be verbose about non-manifold vertices during the
        model analysis phase.

  -t    Display only textual results, do not display the GUI.

  -l s  Set the sampling step to s, which is a percentage of
        the bounding box diagonal of the second model. The
        triangles of the first model are sampled, in order
        to calculate an approximation of the distance, so
        that the sampling density (number of samples per
        unit surface) is 1/(s^2) (i.e. one sample per square
        of side length s). A probabilistic model is used so
        that the resulting number is as close as possible to
        the target. The default is 0.5

  -mf f Ensure that each triangle has a sampling frequency
        of at least f. Normally the sampling frequency for
        a triangle is determined by the sampling step and
        triangle size. For some combinations this can lead
        to some triangles having no or few samples. With a
        non-zero f parameter this can be avoided, although
        it disturbs the uniform distribution of samples.
        With f set to 1, all triangles get at least one
        sample. With f set to 2, all triangles get at least
        three samples, and thus all vertices get a sample.
        Higher values of f are less useful. By default it
        is zero in non-GUI mode and two in GUI mode.

  -wlog Display textual results in a window instead of on
        standard output. Not compatible with the -t option.

  -tex  Enables the display of the error by texture mapping
        on the model.
        WARNING : handle with care. Some platforms will
        fail to display this, and using this on big models
        will probably crash your computer with a
        swap storm. Not compatible with the -t option.

